I'll end on like a note
that's kinda talking about
where you could go with this kind of work.
So again, so far, most of what we've been
doing has just been demos of p5.js and
just looking at it through a web browser
on our computers or maybe on our phones.
But one of the nice things with
the web is that it's really flexible.
And you can use it for
something just as simple as
a webpage that you show a friend or
you show a link to the world.
But you can also use this technology for
installation purposes or, for
something that has a larger scale to it.
An example of that is some
of the work by Ryoji Ikeda.
He's not using Web Audio, he would be
using probably much more robust hardware.
But I think a lot of what he's
doing is achievable with Web Audio.
And especially if you're
just starting in this space,
you might want to just start
with something like Web Audio.
Which is very accessible to be able to
produce these kind of outputs in these
kinds of experiences.
Maybe on a smaller scale, maybe not at
the scale that he's working at, but
some of his work is really fantastic.
He recently had an exhibition in London,
where the entire space was just
multiple rooms that he transformed
into these very emotional kinda
acoustic sound experiences.
And not really like music,
just like noise, but
like interesting noise tied to visuals,
so here's an example.
>> The transnet was possibly one
of the most ambitious projects
that we produced with Ryoji Ikeda.
We've worked for the first ten years,
former can producing his
projects around the world it was artistic
>> Just gonna skip forward a bit,
so he really experiments
with this kind of noise,
this kind of clicking and topping and
>> As I really knew that he was the right.
>> Visualizing that in scale and
some sort of abstract graphic way and
it's quite impactful and quite powerful
to be in these spaces that he sets up.
And that he defines, with his visuals, but
also with his his sound effects and
compositions.
Another artists that's kind of working in
this space in a different way, is Nonotak.
It's two artists that are working
together to create these
really impressive,
audio visual experiences.
They tend to use a lot of
projection mapping techniques,
or projecting through screens,
or using lasers,
or using similar types of like light.
To create these really rich and
interesting, and
exciting sort of
performances just
using their music,
but then tied with
visualizations of that.
[MUSIC]
So one of the reasons I
like to show Nonotak and
Ryoji Ikeda's work is because it's very
primitive in terms of the rendering.
It's quite often just rectangles,
lines, circles, simple shapes, but
overlapping and
combined in interesting ways.
And then tied in a very precise way to
the sounds that are being played and
that's kind of one of the things
I think is really powerful here.
Is that even if you're
using simple shapes and
simple graphics like what we've been
doing scoring today with just using p5.
And just using rectangles and circles,
you can still produce these
really powerful experiences.
And with these kinds of works,
it's quite often through projecting, or
projection mapping, or
just rendering it at a large scale.
But it's something that you can
explore just with p5 yourself.
Because these tools are giving you the
access to be able to create these kinds of
experiences from software perspective.
And just one other source of inspiration
that this one's a little bit older,
but it feels like something that
could have been made even today.
Or something that we could
have been exploring for
these kinds of courses where we're
exploring audio visual representations.
I'm not sure,
I don't think this one is coded,
but it definitely
feels like it has some
elements of code to it,
some elements of an algorithm.
[MUSIC]
So yeah really beautiful just audio
visualization very poetic feeling and
very, very lovely to watch and see.
So that's sort of some of the inspiration
some of the things I like to
show just to show where you
could go with these kinds
of ideas if you were to
continue to develop them.
And maybe eventually show them on like a
larger scale to a larger audience outside
of the scope of just the browser and
just your phone or your computer.